>> Hi, there.
This is Robert Phoenix.
Welcome back to the
Eleventh House.
And today we're going to
be talking about Russia.
Yes the astrology of Russia, and
mostly for the coming year 2014,
but we're going to be looking
at some other elements as well,
especially Russia's relationship
with the United States.
We seem to be these big twins
trudging around the planets,
sort of bumping into each
other throughout the course
of the 20th and the
21st century.
So let's get into this and kind
of get a geographical
sense of Russia.
It's big. I think it
originally had 9 time zones.
I think it's down
to about 5 or 6 now,
since they've peeled off
some of the states,
the stands, but there it is.
It's massive, and we're going
to be also looking at some
of this area down here,
Kazakhstan, Ukraine, Chechnya,
Volgograd, Sochi -- very
important part of 2014.
So there's your visual Russia.
It's big. Now, one of
the earliest connections
between the United States
and Russia takes place
between Abraham Lincoln
and the Czar Alexander,
and this is during the
time of the Civil War.
And Lincoln needed to fund
the army, the northern army
against the south, and
what he did is he decided
to print his own money.
And this is where we get
the whole concept and idea
and the printing
of the greenback,
the American greenback, which
is sort of the inception
of the American dollar.
And in order to do that what
Lincoln did is he disconnected
from the Central Banking system,
and of course the
Central Banking families,
led by the Rothchilds,
weren't too happy about that,
because they wanted the United
States to be beholden to them,
borrow money from them and
thus run up a significant debt
to fund their war effort.
But Lincoln being the
Aquarius that he was decided
that he wasn't going to
play ball and decided
to print his own
money as a result.
Now, the Rothchilds were
thinking about getting involved
and mounting some kind
of counter insurgency
as a result of this.
I'm not sure who they were
going to hire out for that,
but the United States was
vulnerable at that time.
We were fighting
amongst ourselves.
So they were angry, they
were trying to figure
out what they were going to do
in order to get back at Lincoln
and have some form
of retribution,
but Alexander decided to step in
and what he did is he
positioned ships off the coast
of the United States,
which kept,
theoretically kept,
other parties at bay.
Now, there are some
people, some historians
in the alternative
history realm or world,
who believe that it was
that act of standing
up for the United States and
protecting Lincoln that led
to the removal of the
Czar and the start
of the Bolshevik Revolution that
the Rothchilds and other forces
that wanted to take hold
of Russia's vast natural
resources were spurred on
and catalyzed by this moment.
So this is kind of
an interesting
and important relationship early
on between the United
States and Russia.
Now, here is the new Czar.
This is Vladimir Putin.
He looks like a villain
out of James Bond:
the international man
of mystery, Putin.
And we're going to look at his
chart and we're going to look
at Russia's chart from
1991, December 25,
1991 is where we have
the new chart for Russia.
That's when the new government
of Russia came into play. We're
going to look at those charts
side by side, and you're going
to find that there's some really
interesting correlations
between the two.
Here they are side by side.
On the far right,
this is Putin's chart
and on the near right,
this is Russia's chart.
Now, one of the things that's
fascinating about Putin's chart.
He was born on October 7,
1952, which makes him a Libra.
He's got a stellium of
planets in Libra and he happens
to be a Scorpio rising,
how about that?
But here we have the sun
in Saturn and Neptune
and Mercury all in the twelfth
house, and the Twelfth House,
traditionally in astrology,
represents things like prisons,
mental institutions,
monasteries, temples, nunneries.
It's all these social
institutions that we can't see,
hidden away from our eyes.
Well, that's one level
of interpretation
from the Twelfth House.
Another level for
the interpretation
of the Twelfth House is
something more deeper,
more cosmic, more profound,
more metaphysic, more esoteric,
it's the ocean of consciousness
and that's what the
Twelfth House is.
It is the house that
connects us back to our soul.
And when somebody has
planets in the Twelfth House,
we can't easily see the impact
of those planets in the life
of the individual, and sometimes
even the individual themselves
can't even see the
impact of those planets.
It's as if there is a deep
sea vent in the consciousness
or in the psyche
and those planets,
the energy of those planets
rises up into the individual
and moves the individual.
People that have Twelfth House
planets are inside out people.
They live from deep
inside their own character
and their own nature, motivated
by something the rest
of us cannot see.
So this is really what's
taking place in Putin's chart
over here in the Twelfth House.
Now, you'll notice that
he has Saturn in Libra.
Saturn is exalted in Libra.
Libra is the sign of
peacemaking and mediation,
so with this stellium of
Libra planets Putin really is
a peacemaker.
And we saw some of those
behind-the-scenes peacemaking
tactics taking place or
take place not long ago.
The United States was ready
to go to war with Syria,
and what happened was that Putin
seized upon the fact that Kerry,
John Kerry, had said something
to the effect of well,
if Syria could give its chemical
supplies for their gas weapons
over to the UN or over
to the United States,
that might make some
kind of difference.
Well, Putin seized on that
and what happened was was
that a deal was struck.
And basically the Syrians said,
we'll hand over what we have,
just stay out of our
affairs and let us deal
with our so-called
rebels or insurrectionists.
So what Putin did with
Libra and all these planets
in the Twelfth House is he did
a behind-the-scenes back door
mediation peacemaking deal.
So this is the genius in some
ways, of Putin's Twelfth House,
but it still doesn't give
us a sense as to who he is.
Is he an Orthodox?
Is he a Zionist?
Is he a Communist?
Is he a capitalist?
Who is this guy?
We don't really know.
Why? Because most of his chart
is hidden behind the curtain
of the Twelfth House.
Neptune in the twelfth
house indicates
that he is also a natural born
mystic, that there is something
on a religious level that
motivates Putin from a very,
very deep place, and
we can see this perhaps
through his affiliation with the
Orthodox Church and his devotion
to the Orthodox Church.
Now, he also has Venus in
Scorpio in the 1st House
and Venus and Scorpio's intense.
People who have Venus
and Scorpio,
they love intensely,
they hate intensely.
If you are in their circle of
trust you're in their circle
of trust for life, and if
you're not well, good luck.
But he's got Venus in Scorpio,
he's got a trine with that Venus
to Uranus in Cancer
up in the Ninth House.
So that's a really
interesting trine,
and it can be a really
catalytic trine.
He can be a very exciting,
very dynamic individual,
at least that's how people
see him, and you know,
Putin has a really strong
relationship with people
in the United States,
mostly conservative people.
People that are of the
conservative stride see Putin
as the anti-Obama,
and we're going to get
into this a little bit when
we get into the shifting
of the Sun's poles and some
of the other stuff we're going
to look at, but he's
like the anti-Obama.
Putin is a man of action,
he's a man of integrity.
He's not afraid to stand up for
what he believes, and he stands
by the Church, the
Orthodox Church,
He is protecting the rights
of children when it comes
to what some people would call
gay or homosexual propaganda.
So this is the idea or the
ideal of Putin in this country,
conservative Americans
like Putin.
Conservative Americans don't
like Obama because in a lot
of ways, they see
Obama as a socialist.
So here we have this really
interesting juxtaposition of
Putin, a Russian, as perhaps
a capitalist conservative,
and Obama as an American,
as this progressive
socialist, communist.
So this is really
fascinating and this gets back
to this interesting relationship
between the United
States and Russia.
Now, here we have
Venus trining Uranus,
but we also have these planets
over here squaring Uranus,
so we're in a cardinal square
here with Libra and with Cancer,
How does this cardinal
square manifest?
Well, just as the
conservative community
in this country likes
Putin and sees him
in an almost heroic light,
the progressive community
in this country, well, they
don't like him quite nearly
as much, so as a result
of how Russia has decided
to limit the type of exposure
that young Russians have
with the gay or LGBT lifestyle,
most Americans view Russia
and Putin as being hateful and
not having very much tolerance.
And that includes the
President, by the way,
because the President is
sending Billie Jean King
and some openly gay
athletes to Russia
to represent the United States
in the 2014 Olympics in Sochi.
So here we have the square.
So we have the sympathetic
angle with the trine,
and now we have the square,
which is the hard angle.
So we see both of these
aspects between cancer
and Putin's First House and his
Twelfth House getting played
out in his chart --
really fascinating stuff.
Now, Putin also has Mars
in Sagittarius down here
in the Second House, and of
course Sagittarius rules,
sports, outdoors
activities, so you're going
to see him riding
a horse, fishing.
He's also a black
belt Judo, by the way.
He's a tough guy.
Mars in Sagittarius,
26 degrees,
so that's just 2 degrees
off of the galactic center,
which means that Putin
is the type of guy
that has a sense of the moment.
He has an understanding
as to where he needs
to be, what he needs to do.
There's kind of an almost
a celestial directive
in his chart here, especially
with the trine with Pluto,
so Mars-Pluto trine,
he's a serious character.
He can endure a lot, he's got
a lot of personal strength,
a lot of personal power
with the Mars trine,
Down in the Third House,
it gets really interesting.
He's got his true
node in Aquarius.
Now, Aquarius here opposes Leo,
so what we have is we
have the polar opposition
between essentially
royalty and the bourgeoisie,
Leo and the proletarian,
Aquarius down here.
So we see this dynamic getting
played out, this opposition
between royalty and power and
this explosive dynamic energy
of something new
wanting to come
up with something
more democratic,
something more revolutionary.
He's got this in his
chart, and ultimately
because the true node I believe
is the truth north of the chart,
Putin will become a more
Aquarian character over time,
especially when Pluto
moves to Aquarius
after it makes his run
through in Capricorn.
But here, Uranus and the
true node are squared off
against Jupiter in Taurus,
which is also exalted,
by the way, in the
Seventh House.
So the arbiter between these
two is Jupiter, Taurus, Earth,
grounding, trying to find the
sweet spot between the kind
of the rule of the
Kane, the rule of law,
the rule of the people, it
really comes down to Jupiter
in Taurus, which is what's good
for the land or what's good
for the country or
what's good for sort
of the soil of our ancestry.
That's where this all gets
mediated through his chart.
He also has friends in high
places, very wealthy friends,
by the way, with
Jupiter in Taurus.
He's got moon and Gemini
in the Eighth House.
Now, the Eighth House is
the hidden reputed house,
just like the Twelfth House.
The Twelfth House, natural ruler
is Pisces, the natural ruler
of the Eighth House is Scorpio,
so we don't really understand
or see what Putin's feeling
on an emotional level
because his mood his
hidden here in the Eighth,
and it's in Gemini, which
gives him two potential points
of emotional contact.
So we don't really fully
understand what he's feeling
or what he's thinking at any
given time because almost half
of his chart is submerged in the
Eighth and the Twelfth Houses.
Let's move over to the
chart of Russia here
and find some correspondences.
One of the first things
that you'll notice
if you've been paying
attention is that Russia --
this is the chart of Russia,
which is created on the 25th
of December 1991, is that Russia
has an ascendant of 21 Leo.
Where is Putin's Pluto?
It is at 22 Leo, which
places his Pluto right
on the ascendant of Russia.
By the way, I got the charts
out of Astrology Weekly,
so I'm using their charts and
their time for these examples.
So Putin's Pluto is right
on Russia's ascendant,
which means that he has
an extreme influence
over that entire
region with his Pluto.
Now, Pluto, it is a
transpersonal planet,
but nonetheless it's his
Pluto, it's his chart
and it's right there
on the Ascendant.
So the identity of Russia
at this point in time
until they have another
revolution, is synonymous
with the Pluto of Putin and his
own identity, which would be
by the way, that his Mars in
Sagittarius would be right
over where it says
-- right here --
and guess what, it's almost
conjunct Russia's Mars
in Sagittarius.
So not only his Pluto here
right on the Ascendant
but his own Mars, is 7 degree
conjunction is pretty close.
So they have a Mars-Mars
conjunction together,
and of course, Putin's
Pluto is on the Ascendant.
Now, we have Saturn
over here in Aquarius.
This is important for Russia,
by the way, Saturn in Aquarius,
and we have Putin's true node
in Aquarius. 19 degrees puts
it right here on the edge
of the Seventh House --
we're almost screening
it for the Seventh House,
may as well -- so Putin's
true node is over here
in the Seventh House,
which makes him a partner
and a key person in terms
of the overall relationship
with this chart --
very fascinating stuff.
Saturn and Aquarius in
the Sixth House is kind
of a karmic placement
here for Saturn.
Of course, the Russian
revolution,
the Bolshevik Revolution
took place
when Uranus was in Aquarius.
So Russia still has
some Aquarian energy
that it has to deal with.
It has to somehow come to
terms with sort of the blood
and the chaos and the tumult
of the Bolshevik Revolution
while not being completely shut
out or shut down by new ideas
or new technology
or new ways of seeing,
perceiving
and even governing itself.
It has to come to terms with it,
it has to come to grips with it.
And I think it'll happen
in the realm of technology
because the Sixth House
is the house of purpose,
service and work and health.
So I could see some very
interesting radical health
technologies coming out of
the former Soviet Union.
But what's really interesting
here is we've got all these
planets of Capricorn,
and the Soviet Union,
the former Soviet Union becomes
a very Capricornian country --
Sun in Capricorn, 3 degrees,
true node at 9 degrees, Uranus
at 13 degrees -- remember that
number, it's important --
and Neptune in Capricorn
as well.
That's four planets,
that's a stellian.
Now, you could look at we've
got 13 Uranus squaring off
of Putin's Sun.
That's dynamic.
Any time you get into a square,
people say squares
are bad in astrology.
They're hard, they're struggle
that you really have to push
against energy or
you have to push
against your own
inertia with squares.
Sometimes that's not a bad
thing.
Sometimes squares
can be really dynamic
and can really help a person
grow and develop character
and strength and dynamism
and get through periods
of their life where if they're
flat lining or backsliding,
the square could come in and
really challenge a person
to grow, so obviously there's a
really interesting square here
between this energy of Russia
which is very different in a lot
of ways than Putin's energy.
Even though his Pluto
is on the First House
and even though there's
a connection
between the Mars-Mars,
Aquarius and Aquarius,
there is a distinct difference.
Putin is ultimately a
win-win guy, and Russia,
based on the chart from 1991, is
all about Capricornian ascent,
and Capricornian rule.
And what's also fascinating
about this configuration is
that it opposes almost all
of the United States'
stellian and Cancer.
The United States is
a Cancerian country,
so here we have the opposition
between the United States
and Russia being played
out astrologically,
Capricorn versus Cancer.
So let's move on a little bit
here and get deeper into this.
This is the Sun and
this is an illustration
of the Sun's pole shifting.
Now, apparently they're
supposed to shift any day now,
and that doesn't mean that
the world is going to end.
This happens about
every 11 years or so,
and the last time it
happened was 2002.
So 2002 was also the last
time Jupiter was in Leo,
which is a Sun sign, by the way,
which is the sign
of the Sun, Leo.
This happened in
2002, and since 2002,
the world's been a
little topsy turvy.
I mean, we looked a
little bit earlier
about how Putin has become
this sort of figurehead
for the conservative
Intelligentsia in this country,
while Obama has become
a much more European,
international kind
of socialist figure.
That's part of this
topsy turvy kind
of polar shift that's taken
place here in this planet
as well, from a social
perspective.
So we can see this with the sun,
and the sun is about
to flip again.
So what does that mean?
Does that mean that we're going
to see the United States swing
back towards something more
conservative, is Russia
going to swing back
to something less conservative
and more towards its sort
of communitarian,
Aquarian, Uranian kind
of involutionary energy?
Well, time will tell, but
this is about to happen,
and will put us into
another 11-year cycle
where theoretically,
consciousness
and collective symbols
and everything associated
with this could have the
potential to shift as well.
Now, here we go.
Here's Venus trine
Uranus in action.
Remember, Putin has Venus in
Scorpio in the first house,
and Venus in Scorpio can
be a little tricky at times.
The man on my far
right is Robert Kraft,
and he is the owner of
the New England Patriots.
So he owns a football team
that is emblematic and symbolic
of America, the Patriots.
So he went to Russia in 2005,
and what he did is he met
with Russian business
leaders and he decided
to show Putin his
Super Bowl ring.
What did Putin do?
He put it on his finger
and he never gave it back.
He kept Bob Kraft's
Super Bowl ring.
Now, this is very interesting
because what happens here is
that Putin is making a
statement on so many levels.
First of all, he's making a
statement to Bob Kraft, saying,
I have more power than you.
I can take your ring which I
thought you were giving to me
as a gift -- very Venus
in Scorpio, by the way --
and I can hold it
and I can keep it.
That's number one, but also
the ring becomes a fetish,
it becomes a symbol, and Putin
is now channeling in a lot
of ways and stealing this
emblematic power of America,
the Super Bowl, the
Patriots, New England,
and perhaps as a result
there has been this sort
of tidal shift in some ways
towards Russia becoming more
conservative and perhaps even
more American to some extent.
It's a very interesting
moment, and by the way,
Bob Kraft still wants
his ring back.
I read a story the other day
where Putin said he's going
to give him a very nice
ring as a return gift,
but he won't give him his
Super Bowl ring back and oh,
by the way, the New
England Patriots,
they haven't won a
Super Bowl since.
Now, let's fast forward here.
This is a map of Volgograd,
and this is where the
terrorist attacks just recently
took place.
There were two of
them, one on the 29th
of December and one on the 30th.
This is right around
the Russian New Year.
It's also right around
the time of December 25th,
which is the birth
of the new Russia.
And these terror attacks, I
think there were 18 people
that died as a result
-- two separate ones --
train station, suicide bomber,
and they have been
loosely linked
to a radical Islamic
group out of Chechnya,
and this has taken place -- now,
this is all part of this region
which is really heating
up for Russia.
You've got Kazakhstan, you've
got Volgograd here which is
where these attacks took place,
Ukraine, where there's been lots
of protests and recently and
the Ukrainians, they want out.
They want out of Russia and they
want to join the European Union
and Russia won't let them go.
And then of course,
you have Sochi here
where the Olympics
are going to be,
and then of course Chechnya
over in this region.
So this is a really explosive,
dynamic and intense region.
This is where some of
the Aquarian energy
that I was talking about
earlier, is getting played
out for Russia, and in fact, the
Aquarian energy manifests
on February 7 and
the sign of Aquarius
when the start the Olympics in
Sochi, the Russian Olympics.
So I'm going to just
jump into a couple
of interesting symbols here.
This is the symbol of Volgograd.
This is one of the first
Coat of Arms for Volgograd.
We have two fish here that are
crossed, and then three fish
up here, Father,
Son, Holy Ghost,
and this is emblematic
of Pisces.
So we have this Piscian sort
of Christian very old
Christian imagery associated
with Volgograd, and what we
have recently is this is a very
explosive, very Uranian
radical energy taking place
in that area, so we have
this Piscian, Aquarian,
sort of explosive
catalytic energy
that is getting worked
out right there.
There's another example
I'll show you later
on in the slide show
as a result of this.
This is Tamer Lane.
He was one of the great
warriors and conquerors.
He was born on April 9, 1336,
which makes him an Aries.
He spoke about four or
five different languages.
He was part Mambal and part
Islam and wasn't afraid
to be either, depending upon
whichever situation suited him
the most, and the reason
I'm bringing him up here is
because of his connection
with Chechnya
and that part of the world.
Now here we have
another Tamerlane.
This is Tamerlane
Tsarnaev who is a Scorpio.
He of course is associated
with the Boston Marathon
and the bombings with
the Boston Marathon,
and the reason I'm
showing him is
because of the connection
not just with Tamerlane
and Tamerlane both
the same name,
but the Boston bombings took
place on April 15 in 2013,
just six days after the
birthday of the older Tamerlane
from 1336, the great
conqueror and warrior.
Here is Ruslan Tsarnae.
I just wanted to
bring this thing
because I thought it
was really interesting.
He is the uncle of Tsarnaev
of Tamerlane Tsarnaev.
Now, his last name is Tsarnaev
but he changed it to Tsarnae
because apparently he didn't
want to -- this is all prior,
by the way, to the
Boston bombings --
and he had a microphone in
front of him within hours
after the two brothers
or at least Tamerlane
Tsarnaev was killed and Jahar,
his brother, was
taken into custody.
What's interesting about him is
number one, he changed his name,
number two, he's
married to the daughter
of a very important CIA field
operative whose last name is
Fuller -- this is part
of the public record
by the way, I'm not
breaking anything new --
but he's married to the daughter
of a very important CIA
operative from Chechnya
who has very strong connections
to Dick Cheney and a whole bunch
of other really interesting
business associates.
He also lives in a
suburb of Maryland.
Mr. Tsarnaev certainly
appears to be an inside man.
Here we go, we're going to get
into the Sochi Olympics
a little bit here.
I thought this was
really interesting.
This was the original symbol
for the Sochi Olympics,
and the reason I brought this
up is because you can see kind
of the American influence
in this symbol.
We have the red, white and blue,
we have a number of stars here,
stars within stars within stars.
This is very emblematic in
some ways of the United States.
Now, this is the new symbol
for the Sochi Olympics.
It's very, very Russian, we have
2014, the five rings, .ru.
So perhaps somebody inside
of the new Politburo decided
they were getting a little too
close to the American
spirit there.
This is Nodar Kumaritashvili,
and he was a luge racer.
He's from Georgia, which
is not too far from Sochi,
and he died during
the Olympic trials
in the last winter
Olympics in Vancouver.
And there are people
inside the alternative sort
of research circles that believe
that this death was some form
of ritual sacrifice which
took place to christen
or start these Olympics.
What I found interesting
about this was that is has
in some ways for me, more to
do with this coming Olympics
than it has to do with
the Vancouver Olympics
to some extent, because of where
the next Olympics were going
to be held, which is Sochi,
not far from Georgia
where he's from.
Tragic, absolutely but I
just wanted to bring it
up because now we're
looking backwards here,
and we're moving forward in the
astrological arc to some extent.
Now, I just wanted to show
you sort of a little bit
of a side journey here,
but these are some images
that are associated with the
ritual aspect of the Olympics.
This is from Vancouver, and
here we have a violinist.
I think it might be Asha
Machisik, I'm not sure,
but here we have this
canoe that he's in
and he's performing something
from a story called
the Enchanted Canoe.
And the Enchanted Canoe
is kind of another telling
of a tale called the Wild Hunt.
And in the Wild Hunt, it's a
story about a group of huntsmen
who go into the countryside
at night and are overtaken
by the spirit of the
beast, of the wild beast,
and when they're overtaken
by the spirit of the beast,
they kill everything in sight
and they do all kinds of wild
and crazy stuff, and allow
this sort of very animal
and almost borderline
demonic spirit to come out.
So the Enchanted Canoe is kind
of a retelling of that tale,
and here we have a symbol of the
full moon and we have this kind
of beastly character that
is cast in silhouette.
Now, these are just symbols.
That's all they are.
They don't really
have any power over us;
however some people believe
that through the invocation
of these symbols, through
events like the Olympics,
that there is a binding of
a spell, of a collective
and planetary spell that we
participated and it connects us
to the illusion of separation
and duality on this planet.
Let me give you another
example here.
This is also from the
Vancouver Olympics.
Now, this is a summoning
of totemic energies
from Pacific Northwest,
Native American energies.
I think we have some
whales here.
These are killer whales.
But there are some people
that belie this is
actually a swastika.
Now, you can actually
see the swastika shape
if you look at it.
I just wanted to bring
this up as an example
of how images can be hidden
in plain sight at times.
At the very least, it is an
evocation of some kind of native
and shamanic energy, which
may not be all that bad.
These are old traditions that
are a part of this planet
and the history of this
planet, but they are using them
as a part of the
opening ceremonies
and the ritual of the Olympics.
And I wanted to show
you one more.
This is from the '11 Olympics.
This is the closing
ceremonies, I believe.
Here we have a phoenix up
above, we have a black sun
and the stadium here in London
is surrounded by pyramids.
So this is absolutely another
ritual that is being activated
through the intention and the
attention of not just everybody
in the stadium but
everybody watching this event.
So on some level this is
about entrainment and it's
about not necessarily the
empowerment of the people,
but the empowerment of the
energies that are associated
with this event, if you
willingly participate with them
through your attention.
So here is the next
stage of the metaritual
or the Olympic metaritual.
This is the Olympic
torch in space.
Now it's been in
space three times.
I think the first time it was
before the Atlanta Olympics,
the second time was for
the Melbourne Olympics,
and this is the third one.
Now, the torch is
not lit obviously
but it's being passed off.
This is a Russian cosmonaut,
and the torch ritual
here is symbolic
of the Promethean fire ritual or
the Promethean stealing of fire
from the gods which is a
Luciferic ritual in many ways.
So we have this light bringer,
or the source of light,
being stolen from God,
being stolen from the gods,
being brought down to
the planets, and of course,
it is going to light
the Olympic torch,
which is the zenith
of human achievement.
It is the light of man on
the world and on the planet.
So this is literally the
fire and the light falling
from the heavens, coming
down back to Earth,
and going to light
the Olympic torch.
Now, here's another
symbolic event.
This is again has to
do with Russia.
This is the fall of the
statue of Lenin in Ukraine.
It happened just
a few weeks ago.
Now, this is not the only
time Lenin has fallen.
There's been a few others around
the world during the course
of the 20th and 21st century,
but this is the most recent.
It is very symbolic.
The Ukrainians are trying
to divorce themselves
from their association
with Russia,
and of course this is
one way that you do it,
you topple the iconography
of the existing regime.
Will they be successful?
Only time will tell, but right
now it looks like the President
of Ukraine has struck a deal
with Putin and gotten a lot
of money from them
which has kept them
out of the European Union,
which would have made them
accountable to the World Bank.
So it's very difficult
for the Ukrainians,
they want their independence,
but it's certainly challenging
in terms of who they're going
to align themselves with.
At the present time it looks
like it's still Russia.
Now, what's also
really interesting
about this is once one statute
goes down, another comes up.
Here we have Mandela.
This is the Mandela statue,
which was recently unveiled,
and here he is, in
larger than life glory.
This is in South Africa.
We have the twin pillars
of wisdom on either side
of him, Yakin and Boaz,
and Mandela is striking
a very similar pose
to the Christ statue, which
you can see in Rio de Janeiro,
and he is assuming
an almost messianic
to some extent, posture there.
So we have the fall of one
icon and the rise of another,
and it really makes me feel
good that South Africa has just
as much chemtrails as the
United States and the rest
of the world, as we can see
them sort of floating by Mandela
in the distance there.
Oh, and here we go.
This is another image I wanted
to show you before we get
close to the end here.
This is this conflict
between Pisces and Aquarius,
which is personified by the
Orthodox imagery of Jesus
and a disciple, and
we have Pussy Riot,
actually two disciples of Jesus
and then we have
Pussy Riot here,
doing their Pussy Riot Aquarian
and ARCO sort of agitprop.
They're not very talented
but they're really good at
shit disturbing -- I guess this
is an adult audience, right?
So here they are,
they're doing their thing.
They eventually wind up
going to jail for this
and they've gotten released.
But the reason I'm
showing you is
because here we have this really
intense, dynamic confluence
between that old school,
old world Piscean energy
through the Orthodox Church and
even to some extent with Putin,
and this kind of Aquarian
Uranian radical energy
that in some ways
is still a holdover
from the Bolshevik Revolution.
Russia still has
to deal with this.
It's part of their
astrological karma.
So here we go.
Here's the last slide.
This is the configuration
for April 23 of this year,
and I just wanted to show
this to you because --
and I showed this to you before
with the preview for 2014 --
but when I was looking
at Russia's chart,
I noticed that Pluto will
be at 13 degrees Capricorn,
which puts it right
on Uranus' --
Russia's natal Uranus in
Capricorn at the same degree.
So Russia is going to have
a significant role to play
in this cardinal cross,
this cardinal square,
these very intense,
very tight energies
at 13 Mars Libra retrograde, at
13 Pluto retrograde, Capricorn,
over here at 13 Uranus
in Aries, and down here
at 13 Jupiter in Cancer.
So we have this really dynamic,
intense catalytic energy
and it's impacting Russia
directly, with first its Uranus
and then in 2015 transiting
Pluto will hit Russia's natal
Neptune, also in Capricorn, so
that'll be another iteration
and another phase and cycle of
this transformation of Russia,
which by the way, really
took place when Pluto went
into Capricorn in 2009.
So we've seen really in
some ways the social rise
of Russia as a result of this.
What does this mean?
Well, I think that this is part
of what happened in Volgograd.
I think Russia is going to
have more internal conflict,
more internal strife, but also
because it's the Ninth House,
the United States of America
also has a role to play in this.
Why? Because down there in Third
House, right here almost --
well, it's really on
the cusp of the IC.
That's Jupiter in Cancer,
Cancer again being
representative
of the United States.
So some time right around the
23rd of April, I expect things
to heat up between these
two countries, and in terms
of the United States, it will
happen probably just a little
bit before the mid term, so it
will take place here as well,
and that that's a whole
other topic of conversation,
the mid terms of 2014, and maybe
sometime we'll look at that
as well in the Eleventh House.
So there we go.
There's a kind of a very
quick and kind of intense look
at the astrology of
Russia for 2014 and Pluti--
Pluto and Putin together, we can
call them Plutin--
and hopefully you had a sense
as to the catalytic energies
that are taking place
there right now.
It's a country to
keep your eye on,
not just from its own
geographic perspective,
but also from people
within this country as well,
and how they view
Russia and Putin,
both on the right
and on the left.
So that's it.
Until next time, take
care of yourselves.
I'm Robert Phoenix, and
thank you for joining me
in the Eleventh House.